# Light Magic

right|250px

  - Light Magic** is a form of white magic seen in *Castlevania: Lords of Shadow*. It is used by Gabriel Belmont as a form of defensive enhancement skill. When activated, Gabriel's body will be surrounded by a blue aura, infusing his weapons with sacred energy which heals Gabriel with every attack as well as unlocking special abilities with specific Sub-Weapons, like the Divine Shield force field created by using Light magic and Holy Water together.

## Combat techniques and weapon abilities
right|90px
Combat techniques that require Light magic to be performed include the following.
    - Light Fairies**: Combine light magic with fairies to create kamikaze fairies that deal explosive damage to your enemies. (sub-weapon ability)
    - Divine Shield**: Combine light magic with the holy water flask to create a powerful force field. (sub-weapon ability)
    - Erosive chain** : extends a cave of whirling chains around you, the cave draws surrounding enemies in to it, damaging them and healing you at the same time.
    - Holy Cross**: create a dazzling blaze of Light energy from your cross , the beams of light generated by this attack can blind your enemies as well as damage them. (must stay on position while using this attack in order to control your aim)
    - Holy Jump**: After gaining the Seraph Shoulders, double jump with light magic activated to generate beams of light around you, blinded enemies will receive bonus damage from this attack but will recover their sight.
    - Light Flash**: use the **Synchronized Block **while Light magic is activated to detonate a magic discharge that blinds enemies nearby, blinded enemies will receive bonus damage but will recover their sight.
    - Ultimate Light**: when you activate this mode Gabriel will start spinning constantly, attacking any surrounding enemies. (you can direct your spin attack at will)

## Item Data


## Gallery


## See also
- Shadow Magic

es:Magia Luminosa
Category: Healing Items
Category: Lords of Shadow Items
